[MRG] Pandas Interoperability section (#11305)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/interoperability/pandas.rst

.. _pandas:

=======================
Pandas Interoperability
=======================

The basics of using pandas and scikit-learn
==================================================================

In general, scikit-learn supports the use of `pandas DataFrames <http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/>`__ implicitly. However, this implicit support has its conditions and potential pitfalls and some (not all) of these will be outlined below.

> 

Author: I think I used most of your words but hopefully this is a start: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/11305/commits/e7501a2f9cab6e1d179fa413c6bafb57af9ccd18

> Every scikit-learn estimator supports the use of DataFrames which is achieved by obtaining a `numpy array <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/user/>`__ using the :meth:`.values` property of the DataFrame class. There are several conditions on such an input DataFrame one of which is that the data in the DataFrame columns used by the estimator are of numerical type. Other conditions and pitfalls are described in subsequent sections. The numerical condition can be checked e.g. using something like:

Author: Good to know thanks for pointing this out. I added a note about this in this commit https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/11305/commits/b06790b08472fdf59742aca2c7d5add43f0933d9

  >>> import pandas as pd
  >>> from pandas.api.types import is_numeric_dtype
  >>> df = pd.DataFrame({'foo': [1,2,3],
                         'bar': [1.2, 2.3, 3.]})
  >>> all([is_numeric_dtype(df[x]) for x in df.columns])
  >>> # True
  >>> df = pd.DataFrame({'foo': [1,2,3],
                         'bar': [1.2, 2.3, 3.],
                         'baz': ['foo', 'bar', 'baz']})
  >>> all([is_numeric_dtype(df[x]) for x in df.columns])
  >>> # False

> There are also a variety of classes such as pipelines and model selection processes that will pass a DataFrame along "as is" to the nested estimators (see the next section for an example). However, this is not guaranteed and some of the issues with this are outlined below and sources (where available) of discussions and work-arounds (the latter is provided without guarantee that the workaround will still work) are provided. It should also be mentioned that the :meth:`.values` property will create an in-memory copy of the DataFrame, thus using a numpy array in the first place can be more memory efficient as well as avoiding some of the potential pitfalls when using DataFrames.

Author: See: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/11305/commits/b3896a342b3e0ba8627c780d04322ebc4f612f4e

Pandas in Pandas out
====================

> It is currently not the case, that all estimators in scikit-learn return a DataFrame as an output when provided with a DataFrame as an input. There is an ongoing discussion and drive to improve support on this matter although there are also voices that suggest that in general, scikit-learn should only be expected to work smoothly with numpy arrays and have some basic support for DataFrames.

Author: Hmm I think I came across this somewhere and thought it interesting but I agree it does not add much value here. 😅  Removed in https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/11305/commits/d42c997fbeee1c97cdca8ffe3c8a61291d096c74

Example for pandas working with scikit-learn estimator/transformer:

>>> import numpy as np
>>> from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
>>> import pandas as pd
>>>
>>> # make a dataframe
>>> iris = load_iris()
>>> X, y = iris.data[:-1,:], iris.target[:-1]
>>> iris_pd = pd.DataFrame(X)
>>> iris_pd.columns = iris.feature_names
>>> iris_pd['target'] = y
>>>
>>> from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split

> >>> train, test = train_test_split(iris_pd.copy(), test_size= 0.3)

Reviewer: That is weird. Actually we have to copy again afterwards otherwise pandas will throw a warning....

> >>> train, test = train_test_split(iris_pd.copy(), test_size= 0.3)

Reviewer 2: I think we've discussed this before :) https://github.com/pandas-dev/pandas/issues/18801

Probably easiest to leave the copy for now.

Dealing with missing values
===========================

As per the glosary, most scikit-learn estimators do not work with missing values. If they do, NaN is the preferred representation of missing values. For more details, see https://scikit-learn.org/stable/glossary.html#term-missing-values.

Sparse DataFrames Handling
=============================

**Issue:**
``Sparse DataFrames`` are not automatically converted to ``scipy.sparse`` matrices.

This is an issue which has vastly improved from pandas version 0.21.1 onwards. The conversation from dataframes has been largely optimized and are much faster to convert.

In general, Sparse datastructures (i.e. DataFrames, Series, Arrays) are memory optimised structures of their standard counterparts. They work on the principle that they contain a lot of NaN, 0, or another repeating value (this can be specified), and as such a lot of memory can be saved, which means one can potentially work with datasets that would otherwise be too large to fit into available memory. However one has to be careful they don't get converted into the dense format by mistake.

> In Pandas, the sparse datastructrures are: :class:`~pandas.SparseDataFrame`, :class:`~pandas.SparseSeries` and :class:`~pandas.SparseArray`.

Author: Reworded it slightly here: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/11305/commits/38d98fc151e0b49f12c3851c52aac2d0bb8cbb5c

The methods: :meth:`.to_sparse(fill_value=0)` and :meth:`.to_dense()` can be used to convert between normal and sparse data structures.
The `.density` property can be called on the sparse structures to report sparseness.

In scipy.sparse we have a number of various sparse matrix classes:

==========  =====================================
Class
==========  =====================================
bsr_matrix  Block Sparse Row matrix
coo_matrix  Sparse matrix in COOrdinate format
csc_matrix  Compresed Sparse Column matrix
csr_matrix  Compresed Row matrix
dia_matrix  Sparse matrix with diagonal storage
dok_matrix  Dictionary of Keys based sparse matrix
lil_matrix  Row-based linked list sparse matrix

> ==========  =====================================

Reviewer 3: I would remove this table, it's not really relevant. In scikit-learn we mostly use CSR / CSC providing an example of how to convert `SparseDataFrame` to CSR as done below might be enough.

Author: Worked on this and the 80 line length here: https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/pull/11305/commits/37380c95de850a668ad5516a65cbc7db97c682a7

.. _pandas:

=======================
Pandas Interoperability
=======================

This part of the User Guide aims to highlight some of the particularities that

> arise when using Pandas datastructures as input for Scikit-learn.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
arise when using Pandas data structures as input for Scikit-learn.
```

The basics of using Pandas and Scikit-learn
==================================================================

Scikit-learn supports the use of
`Pandas DataFrames <http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/>`__
implicitly. However, this implicit support has its conditions and potential

> pitfalls and some (not all) of these will be outlined below.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
pitfalls, some of which are outlined below.
```

Your text is generally very verbose, but I won't give it a full copy edit. Perhaps you can look over it for sentences you can say in fewer, simple words and paragraphs you can say in fewer sentences.

> Reasons for these conditions and the difficulty of supporting Pandas, stems

Reviewer 4: This sentence could start at "Pandas data structures ..."

> from the fact that Pandas data structures such as Series and DataFrames can

Reviewer 4: This does not really apply to Series

hold heterogenous datatypes (different columns can contain different

> datatypes). Therefore, Series and DataFrames can be thought of as containers

Reviewer 4: "while numpy arrays are designed to work with homogeneous data type, and do not support some rich dtypes available in Pandas, such as..." would summarise the remainder of the paragraph.

  >>>
  >>> arr = np.random.random(size=(1000, 1000))
  >>> arr[arr < .9] = 0
  >>>
  >>> sparse_df = pd.SparseDataFrame(arr, default_fill_value=0)
  >>> coo = sparse_df.to_coo()
  >>> #or
  >>> coo = coo_matrix(sparse_df)
  >>>
  >>> csr = coo.tocsr()
  >>> csc = coo.tocsc()
  >>>
  >>> print('Confirm both are sparse:',
  ...       issparse(coo) == issparse(csr) == issparse(csc) == True)
  Confirm both are sparse: True
  >>> print('Confirm same amount of non-empty values:',
  ...       coo.nnz == csr.nnz == csc.nnz)
  Confirm same amount of non-empty values: True

The code above highlights the following three elements:

1) If your sparse value is not NaN then it is important to specify
*default_fill_value* property when creating your Pandas DataFrame, otherwise no
space saving will occur. Check this using the
:attr:`~pandas.SparseDataFrame.density()` property, which
should be less than 100% if successful. When creating the scipy sparse matrix,
this *default_fill_value* will be used for use as the sparse value (nnz).

2) Either the :meth:`~pandas.SparseDataFrame.to_coo()` method on the Pandas
SparseDataFrame, or :class:`~scipy.sparse.coo_matrix` constructor are

> alternative ways you can convert to a scipy sparse datastructure.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
alternative ways you can convert to a scipy.sparse data structure.
```

The basics of using pandas and Scikit-learn
==================================================================

Scikit-learn supports the use of
`pandas DataFrames <http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/>`__
implicitly. However, this implicit support has its conditions and potential
pitfalls and some (not all) of these will be outlined below.

Reasons for these conditions and the difficulty of supporting pandas, stems
from the fact that pandas data structures such as Series and DataFrames can
hold heterogenous datatypes (different columns can contain different
datatypes). Therefore, Series and DataFrames can be thought of as containers
for arrays that hold the actual data in an homogenous format. Some of these
underlying data structures might not necessarily be representable as NumPy
arrays (e.g. Categorical data). Pandas supports these alternate data types using
pandas specific or 3rd party libraries that extend the NumPy type system. The
difficulty of supporting pandas data structure thus comes from pandas
capability of supporting heterogenous data in one data structure.

Every Scikit-learn estimator/transformer/pipeline

> (for the rest of this section we shall call these primitives)

Reviewer 4: these should just be called estimators

> supports the use of DataFrames as inputs which is achieved by obtaining a

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
supports the use of DataFrames as inputs. Most do this by obtaining a
```

`NumPy array <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/user/>`__ using

> the :meth:`~numpy.asarray` on a DataFrame object. The only exception where a

Reviewer 4: Not the only exception. Several meta-estimators pass their data on unmodified (Pipeline, etc.) or know how to slice a Pandas DataFrame (GridSearchCV, etc.)

a DataFrame is being used explicitly is the
:class:`~sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer` which is briefly
discussed below `Dealing with heterogenous data`_.

.. note::
  Starting with pandas version 0.24.0, it is encouraged to obtain
  NumPy arrays from DataFrames or Series via :meth:`.to_numpy()` instead of
  using :meth:`.values`. More details on this can be found in the
  `release notes <http://pandas-docs.github.io/pandas-docs-travis/whatsnew/v0.24.0.html#accessing-the-values-in-a-series-or-index>`__
  and the documentation `here <http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/getting_started/basics.html#basics-dtypes>`__
  and `here <http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/getting_started/basics.html#attributes-and-underlying-data>`__.

There are several conditions on using a DataFrame as an input to

> Scikit-learn primitives, one of which is that the data in the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
most Scikit-learn estimators, one of which is that the data in the
```

DataFrame columns used by the estimator are of numerical type. Other conditions
and pitfalls are described in subsequent sections. The numerical condition can
be checked e.g. using something like::

  >>> import pandas as pd
  >>> from pandas.api.types import is_numeric_dtype
  >>> df = pd.DataFrame({'foo': [1, 2, 3],
  ...                    'bar': [1.2, 2.3, 3.]})
  >>> all([is_numeric_dtype(df[x]) for x in df.columns])
  True
  >>> df = pd.DataFrame({'foo': [1,2,3],
  ...                    'bar': [1.2, 2.3, 3.],
  ...                    'baz': ['foo', 'bar', 'baz']})
  >>> all([is_numeric_dtype(df[x]) for x in df.columns])
  False

There are also a variety of classes such as pipelines and model selection
processes that will pass a DataFrame along "as is" to the nested estimators

> (see the next section for an example). However, this is not guaranteed and some

Reviewer 4: I don't know what "this is not guaranteed" means. For particular estimators, this behaviour is guaranteed, insofar as we guarantee anything.

of the issues arising as a result are outlined below and sources
(where available) of
discussions and work-arounds (the latter is provided without guarantee that the
workaround will still work) are provided. It should also be mentioned that if

> the DataFrame contains heterogenous data, the :meth:`~numpy.asarray()` function will

Reviewer 4: even numeric data of heterogenous dtype

create an in-memory copy of the DataFrame, thus using a NumPy array in the
first place can be more memory efficient as well as avoiding some of the
potential pitfalls when using DataFrames. If the DataFrame contains only
homogenous data in the first place, no in-memory copy will be created using
:meth:`~numpy.asarray()`.

Pandas in **not** Pandas out
============================

> Some primitives in Scikit-learn support the pandas in pandas out, however it

Reviewer 4: I think this should focus on output of `transform` and `predict` and similar methods. `train_test_split` is necessarily a special case and can be noted. Apart from FunctionTransformer with appropriate args and Pipeline with appropriate args, I can't think of any estimator that will output a pandas type from `predict`, `transform`, etc.

  >>>
  >>> feature_columns_train = ['sepal length (cm)','sepal width (cm)',
  ...                          'petal length (cm)','petal width (cm)']
  >>> # last two correct order
  >>> feature_columns_test = ['sepal length (cm)','sepal width (cm)',
  ...                         'petal width (cm)','petal length (cm)']
  >>> # last two switched order
  >>>
  >>> from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
  >>> lg = LogisticRegression(n_jobs=4, random_state=123, verbose=0,
  ...                         penalty='l2', C=1.0,
  ...                         solver='lbfgs', multi_class='auto')
  >>> lg.fit(train[feature_columns_train], train['target'])
  LogisticRegression(C=1.0, class_weight=None, dual=False, fit_intercept=True,
                     intercept_scaling=1, l1_ratio=None, max_iter=100,
                     multi_class='auto', n_jobs=4, penalty='l2', random_state=123,
                     solver='lbfgs', tol=0.0001, verbose=0, warm_start=False)
  >>>
  >>> res1 = lg.predict(test[feature_columns_train])
  >>> res1[:5]
  array([1, 0, 2, 1, 1])
  >>> # result is actually
  >>> res2 = lg.predict(test[feature_columns_test])
  >>> res2[:5]
  array([0, 0, 2, 0, 0])

> At the time of writing, it is the users responsibility to ensure that the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
At the time of writing, it is the user's responsibility to ensure that the
```

column ordering in the data used for training the estimator is the same as the
ordering of the data used for prediction. There is an ongoing discussion

> whether or not this will change in the future and this

Reviewer 4: I think the only likelihood in the future is that where it would otherwise be passed to asarray and its column names mismatch those used at fit, this will lead to an error. You shouldn't give the impression that we might support automatically reordering columns. This is a very unlikely (and risky) behaviour for us to support.

`issue <https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/7242>`__ should be
watched and used to update this paragraph in the future. A simple and straight-
forward way of ensuring that column ordering and column labels are the same is
using something like `df[list of column names]` to enforce the
correct ordering.

Handling Categorical data
=========================

For a general guide on how to get started with categorical features please refer

> to :term:`categocrical feature` and :ref:`preprocessing_categorical_features`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to :term:`categorical feature` and :ref:`preprocessing_categorical_features`.
```

It is worth noting that as of :ref:`changes_0_20_3`, both
:class:`~sklearn.preprocessing.OneHotEncoder` and
:class:`~sklearn.preprocessing.OrdinalEncoder`
support string or Categorical columns coming straight from pandas DataFrames.

Dealing with heterogenous data
==============================

Many modern datasets used with Scikit-learn contain heterogenous data. For the
purpose of adding bespoke preprocessing steps for separate columns, Scikit-
learn provides an experimental :class:`~sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer` API
(:ref:`column_transformer`).
This API (which might change in the future) allows the definition of different
transformation steps to be applied to different columns in either arrays,
sparse matrices or pandas DataFrames.

Dealing with missing values
===========================

> As per the glossary, most Scikit-learn primitives do not work with missing

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As per the glossary, most Scikit-learn estimators do not work with missing
```

values. If they do, NaN is the preferred representation of missing values. For
more details, see :term:`missing values`. Non-numeric data is now also supported
via the ``'most_frequent'`` or ``'constant'`` of the
:class:`~sklearn.impute.SimpleImputer` class. For details see :ref:`impute`.

Sparse DataFrames Handling
=============================

.. note::
  **Issue:**
  ``Sparse DataFrames`` are not automatically converted to ``scipy.sparse``

>   matrices.

Reviewer 4: Sparse DataFrames are also deprecated in Pandas, if I'm not mistaken.

Author: I was not able to find evidence, I thought they still exist? https://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/user_guide/sparse.html?highlight=sparsedataframe ?

for arrays that hold the actual data in an homogenous format. Some of these
underlying data structures might not necessarily be representable as NumPy
arrays (e.g. Categorical data). Pandas supports these alternate data types using
pandas specific or 3rd party libraries that extend the NumPy type system. The
difficulty of supporting pandas data structure thus comes from pandas
capability of supporting heterogenous data in one data structure.

Every Scikit-learn estimator supports the use of DataFrames which is achieved
by obtaining a `NumPy array <https://docs.scipy.org/doc/numpy/user/>`__ using
the :meth:`.to_numpy` property of the DataFrame class.

.. note::
  Starting with pandas version 0.24.0, it is encouraged to obtain
  NumPy arrays from DataFrames or Series via :meth:`.to_numpy()` instead of
  using :meth:`.values`. More details on this can be found in the
  `release notes <http://pandas-docs.github.io/pandas-docs-travis/whatsnew/v0.24.0.html#accessing-the-values-in-a-series-or-index>`__
  and the documentation `here <http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/getting_started/basics.html#basics-dtypes>`__

>   and `here <http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/getting_started/basics.html#attributes-and-underlying-data>`__.

Author: I am happy to remove the section but as per discussion above I got the feeling that mentioning it in a small note might be worth. After all it could be that some scikit-learn users that are also pandas users will hear about it this way because there are not following all the pandas updates. This could be appreciated by some.

>   and `here <http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/getting_started/basics.html#attributes-and-underlying-data>`__.

Reviewer 4: I agree this is not relevant.

>   and `here <http://pandas.pydata.org/pandas-docs/stable/getting_started/basics.html#attributes-and-underlying-data>`__.

Author: removed

  >>> all([is_numeric_dtype(df[x]) for x in df.columns])
  True
  >>> df = pd.DataFrame({'foo': [1,2,3],
  ...                    'bar': [1.2, 2.3, 3.],
  ...                    'baz': ['foo', 'bar', 'baz']})
  >>> all([is_numeric_dtype(df[x]) for x in df.columns])
  False

There are also a variety of classes such as pipelines and model selection
processes that will pass a DataFrame along "as is" to the nested estimators
(see the next section for an example). However, this is not guaranteed and some
of the issues with this are outlined below and sources (where available) of
discussions and work-arounds (the latter is provided without guarantee that the
workaround will still work) are provided. It should also be mentioned that if
the DataFrame contains heterogenous data, the :meth:`.to_numpy()` property will
create an in-memory copy of the DataFrame, thus using a NumPy array in the
first place can be more memory efficient as well as avoiding some of the
potential pitfalls when using DataFrames. If the DataFrame contains only
homogenous data in the first place, no in-memory copy will be created using
:meth:`.to_numpy`.

Pandas in Pandas out
====================

> It is currently not the case that all estimators in Scikit-learn return a

Reviewer 5: I think actually *none* of the estimators currently do that?

Reviewer 5: Yeah, so cross-validation (`train_test_split` you show below) is an exception, but this is not an estimator. So therefore my confusion.

Personally, I would make the cross-validation a separate section.

DataFrame as an output when provided with a DataFrame as an input.

Example for pandas working with Scikit-learn estimator/transformer:

>>> import numpy as np
>>> from sklearn.datasets import load_iris
>>> import pandas as pd
>>>
>>> # make a dataframe
>>> iris = load_iris()
>>> X, y = iris.data[:-1,:], iris.target[:-1]
>>> iris_pd = pd.DataFrame(X)
>>> iris_pd.columns = iris.feature_names
>>> iris_pd['target'] = y
>>>
>>> from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
>>> train, test = train_test_split(iris_pd.copy(), test_size= 0.3)
>>>
>>> type(train)
<class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame'>

However, removing some random values from the dataset and using the

> :class:`~sklearn.impute.SimpleImputer` to replace the NaNs returns a NumPy

Reviewer 5: I would maybe show here a simpler example such as StandardScaler (then the introduction of missing values is not needed here, keeping the focus on what we actually want to show), and the imputation example can still be used for the imputation section.

>>> # selecting some random indices to replace
>>> idx = train.index[rng.binomial(1, 0.2, train.shape[0]).astype(bool)]
>>> train.loc[idx, 'sepal length (cm)'] = np.nan
>>>
>>> from sklearn.impute import SimpleImputer
>>>
>>> imputer = SimpleImputer()
>>> X = imputer.fit_transform(train)
>>> type(X)
<class 'numpy.ndarray'>

As this example shows, at the moment it is not guaranteed that Scikit-learn
operators with :meth:`.fit`, :meth:`.transform` (and :meth:`.predict`)
capability support pandas in pandas out. However, there are ways around this
such as an example given
`here <https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/5523#issuecomment-171674105>`__
show, where adding additional functionality to the StandardScaler class adds
the pandas in pandas out capability. Care should be taken as this does not
take care of the column ordering problem that is discussed in the next section.

The column ordering problem
===========================

Because Scikit-learn transforms DataFrames to NumPy arrays, it should be
assumed, that all information and benefits of column names is lost and that
from that point forward, only column order and not column labels stay relevant.

> This can cause problems when e.g. pickling a trained estimator and later

Reviewer 5: this is a problem in general with using new data for predict, not only when having pickled a trained estimator, so I would just scope this problem as "predicting on unseen data" where the new data have a different column order.

applying it to a new DataFrame that, while having the same data columns and
labels, has those in a different order compared to the original DataFrame.
Intuitively it might be assumed that because Scikit-learn handles the use of
DataFrames so smoothly in most cases, the same goes for re-ordering labeled

> DataFrames but this is **not** the case.

Reviewer 5: To make this a bit more succint, I would just say that scikit-learn does not check if the column order is consistent or automatically reorders.

An example of how this might impact your future prediction can be seen in the
example given below (original with slight modifications adjusting for current

> API, thanks to `SauceCat <https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/7242#issue-173131995>`__).

Reviewer 5: Although it is certainly nice to credit people for examples, I think here it is not needed to include this)

> >>> # for simplification, consider a very simple case

Reviewer 5: this whole code block needs to be intended (and a `::` before it, as in one of the previous comments)

Reviewer 5: also, you can remove this first commented line

>>> iris_pd = pd.DataFrame(X)
>>> iris_pd.columns = iris.feature_names
>>> iris_pd['target'] = y
>>>
>>> from sklearn.model_selection import train_test_split
>>> train, test = train_test_split(iris_pd, test_size= 0.3, random_state=42)
>>>
>>> feature_columns_train = ['sepal length (cm)','sepal width (cm)',
...                          'petal length (cm)','petal width (cm)']
>>> # last two correct order
>>> feature_columns_test = ['sepal length (cm)','sepal width (cm)',
...                         'petal width (cm)','petal length (cm)']
>>> # last two switched order
>>>
>>> from sklearn.linear_model import LogisticRegression
>>> lg = LogisticRegression(n_jobs=4, random_state=123, verbose=0,
...                         penalty='l2', C=1.0,
...                         solver='lbfgs', multi_class='auto')
>>> lg.fit(train[feature_columns_train], train['target'])
LogisticRegression(C=1.0, class_weight=None, dual=False, fit_intercept=True,
                   intercept_scaling=1, l1_ratio=None, max_iter=100,
                   multi_class='auto', n_jobs=4, penalty='l2', random_state=123,
                   solver='lbfgs', tol=0.0001, verbose=0, warm_start=False)
>>>

> >>> prob1 = lg.predict_proba(test[feature_columns_train])

Reviewer 5: can you show the output of `predict` instead of `predict_proba` here? (I assume that will be easier to interpret)

array([[4.11775575e-03, 8.20651654e-01, 1.75230591e-01],
       [9.42197387e-01, 5.78021174e-02, 4.96014488e-07],
       [2.80792378e-07, 5.36112664e-03, 9.94638593e-01],
       [6.92583081e-03, 7.79167290e-01, 2.13906879e-01],
       [1.64170075e-03, 7.43560544e-01, 2.54797756e-01]])
>>> # result is actually
>>> prob2 = lg.predict_proba(test[feature_columns_test])
>>> prob2[:5]
array([[7.97326265e-01, 1.74068589e-01, 2.86051460e-02],
       [9.96001477e-01, 3.99849230e-03, 3.08998201e-08],
       [2.50514227e-03, 7.47234078e-03, 9.90022517e-01],
       [7.15353463e-01, 2.33443544e-01, 5.12029929e-02],
       [5.67215000e-01, 3.41931708e-01, 9.08532926e-02]])

At the time of writing, it is the users responsibility to ensure that the
column ordering in the data used for training the estimator is the same as the
ordering of the data used for prediction. There is an ongoing discussion
whether or not this will change in the future and this
`issue <https://github.com/scikit-learn/scikit-learn/issues/7242>`__ should be
watched and used to update this paragraph in the future. A simple and straight-
forward way of ensuring that column ordering and column labels are the same is

> using something like :meth:`df.loc[:, list of column names]` to enforce the

Reviewer 5: I would do here the same as what you used above in the example (so `df[list of column names]` instead of `loc`).

Also, you can remove the `:meth:`, as this is not a method for which sphinx can create a link to the docstring page.

correct ordering.

Handling Categorical data
=========================

Section to be extended.

See the following references to get started:

- https://scikit-learn.org/stable/glossary.html#term-categorical-feature
- https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/preprocessing.html#preprocessing-categorical-features

> - https://github.com/scikit-learn-contrib/sklearn-pandas

Reviewer 5: It would be nice to expand this section, now that OneHotEncoder/OrdinalEncoder support non-numeric data (but very short pointing to the user guide is good)

Can you use sphinx syntax to link to the other section in the docs? (see http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/usage/restructuredtext/roles.html#cross-referencing-arbitrary-locations)

If you have time of course!

Author: I have addressed all of your other comments. I will work on this section over the next days and ping you when it is updated. Have a look at the rest and see if they are ok now.

Dealing with heterogenous data
==============================

Many modern datasets used with Scikit-learn contain heterogenous data. For the
purpose of adding bespoke preprocessing steps for separate columns, Scikit-
learn provides an experimental :class:`~sklearn.compose.ColumnTransformer` API.
This API (which might change in the future) allows the definition of different
transformation steps to be applied to different columns in either arrays,

> sparse matrices or pandas DataFrames.

Reviewer 5: I would add a link to the user guide section about this.

Dealing with missing values

> ===========================

Reviewer 5: It might be good to mention here that the imputation methods now also support non-numeric data with the constant and most frequent strategies, and then link to the impute user guide.

> As per the glosary, most Scikit-learn estimators do not work with missing

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
As per the glossary, most Scikit-learn estimators do not work with missing
```

values. If they do, NaN is the preferred representation of missing values. For

> more details, see https://scikit-learn.org/stable/glossary.html#term-missing-values.

Reviewer 5: There is a sphinx syntax for doing this, I think ``:term:`missing values` ``

Sparse DataFrames Handling
=============================

.. note::
  **Issue:**
  ``Sparse DataFrames`` are not automatically converted to ``scipy.sparse``
  matrices.

This is an issue which has vastly improved from pandas version 0.21.1 onwards.
The conversation from DataFrames has been largely optimised and are much faster

> to convert.

Reviewer 5: I think this sentence is out of scope for the material here (we should try to focus on scikit-learn, not on how things evolved in pandas, unless they are very relevant of course).

In general, Sparse data structures (i.e. DataFrames, Series, Arrays) are memory
optimised structures of their standard counterparts. They work on the principle
that they contain a lot of NaN, 0, or another repeating value (this can be
specified), and as such a lot of memory can be saved, which means one can
potentially work with datasets that would otherwise be too large to fit into
available memory. However one has to be careful they don't get converted into
the dense format by mistake.

In Pandas, the main sparse data structures is: :class:`~pandas.SparseArray`.
Both :class:`~pandas.SparseDataFrame` and :class:`~pandas.SparseSeries` exists
but don't offer significant advantages over DataFrames where the columns are

> SparseArrays and will be deprecated at some point in the future.

Reviewer 5: I would be a bit more vague here. We don't know the exact plan what we are going to do in pandas. So I would keep to the current situation here, and I think the most important point that scikit-learn users need to know is: scikit-learn does not support sparse pandas structures, by default they will also be converted to numpy arrays (and thus densified). If you want to keep it sparse, you need to convert to a sparse Scipy matrix yourself manually. (is that correct? I personally never used it)
